Chlorophyta - Green Algae
Chlorophyta is a paraphyletic group containing 7,000 species of green algae. Chlorophyte actually means "green plant" in greek.
Sea Lettuce (Ulva lactuca)


Echinodermata - Urchins, Sea Stars, Sea Cucumbers
"Echinoderm" comes from Greek roots meaning spiny skin (although all Echinodermata do not have spiny skin). Their primary characteristics besides spiny skin are five-part radial symmetry and a water vascular system.
Hairy Sea-Cucumber (Sclerodactyla briareus)


Mollusca - Snails, Bivalves, Cephalopods
Most mollusks have a hard external shell. All mollusks develop similar larvae, and all have a complete digestive system, and blood circulatory system.
Common Periwinkle (Littorina littorea)


Phaeophyta - Brown Algae
Brown algae are found primarily in colder waters and can grow up to 60 meters long.
Sea Potato (Leathesia difformis)


Cnidaria - Sea Anemones, Jellyfish, Corals
Cnidarians have either the polyp or medusa form, have radial symmetry, and only two layers of living tissue.
Moon Jelly (Aurelia aurita)


Porifera - Sponges
Sponges are one of the most simplistic multi-celled organisms and lack both anterior and posterior ends. Additionally, they don't have any mouth so they obtain energy through filter feeding!
Red Beard Sponge (Microciona prolifera)


Rhodophyta - Red Algae
Red Algae are able to photosynthesize at greater depths than other algae and are one of the most common species in the sub-littoral zone. Also, they vary in color from red to nearly black with tints of green and brown.
False Aghardiella (Gracilaria verrucosa)


Arthropoda - Crustaceans
75% of all species are in the Arthropoda phylum. Their epidermis secretes a protective calcium carbonate and chitin exoskeleton.
Horseshoe Crab (Limulus polyphemus)


Spermatophyta - Seed-Bearing Plants
Spermatophytes are seed-bearing plants and are classified as either gymnosperms (cone-producing plants) or angiosperms (flower-producing plants).
Smooth Cordgrass (Spartina patens)


